>> My name is Derek Clegg.
I'm an engineer in the graphics
and imaging group and I'm going to talk to you
about Quartz 2D, how you can use it in your application.
Give you some introduction to some of
the APIs that are available and then move
onto some interesting technology directions that you can go.
So we've going to cover today a little bit about
what Quartz is, sort of the general ideas,
some of the fundamental concepts in Quartz 2D.
The basics of what you can use
Quartz 2D to do in your application.
A lot of you might be familiar with the Cocoa level.
We're going to drop down into the,
sort of the C APIs underlying.
Touch on some of the advance capabilities
that are available and then give you some tips
for getting started and where you can go after this session.
So Quartz is sort of a big umbrella that a
lot of you may be familiar with from Tiger.
Includes the windowing system, the basic stuff that manages
your windows for you, all of the 2D drawing of course,
which I'm going to focus on today, display services,
Image I/O, excuse me, Core Image, Core Video,
Quartz Composer is part of Quartz and PDF kit.
So it's a big package of things.
It's not just simply the Quartz 2D API.
And in Leopard we've extended it, made
it even better by adding Core Animation
which is a very cool, very neat frame work.
There's a talk later today on Core Animation.
Image Kit also very cool.
So Quartz is a pretty big package of things.
But I'm going to focus today specifically on Quartz 2D.
It's the part of Quartz that is the 2D API
underlying all of the 2D drawing in the system.
Now some of the features that are key to
Quartz 2D are one: device independence.
What this means is that when you write your
code using Quartz 2D you don't hav-e to worry
about what device its going to end up being used on.
For example, you might be writing code that's
going to end up in a PDF file or draw some stuff
on the screen of course or to bit map contents.
All of that is independent of your code.
We handle that on our side, you write your code once and
because we do the right thing with device independence,
you don't have think about where
the device, where it's going to end up.
Another part of, component to that,
because different devices,
different output media have different
resolutions Quarts 2D is resolution independent.
So you don't have to worry about whether you're
going to a 92 DPI screen or a 600 DPI printer.
The resolution is something you don't have to think about.
You use the same code, ends up in the same
looking good way on each output resolution.
Of course, high performance, fundamental part of Quartz
2D if we don't have high performance, we don't have much.
So it's very high performance.
We spend a lot of effort making sure that it stays
at very, very high performance for your applications.
An important part of Quartz 2D that you see
all the time and you may not even be aware
of it consciously, is the anti-aliased graphics and text.
That anti-aliasing is a technique that keeps the edges
smooth, keeps them from looking blocky, and, and ugly.
So the smoothing of all the graphics and
text is a fundamental part of Quartz 2D.
-
You don't need to do anything to get that.
It's just built in.
Alpha transparency is also an important part of Quartz 2D.
Alpha is another word for the opacity,
the transparency of an object,
how much transparent something is when you draw it.
So alpha transparency is a fundamental part of Quartz
2D from the beginning which gives us really high quality
and graphics, very interesting effects,
like the new desktop as you've seen.
So that's a fundamental part of
Quartz 2D that we have built in.
And of course we need to be able to draw this
screen, but a lot of people want to print,
they want to send their PDF files to
their friends and neighbors, presumably.
So built into Quartz 2D is PDF support for output.
So again, you don't have to do too much
to get your content written to a PDF file.
We do all the work for you behind the scenes.
And that's been part of Quartz 2D from the beg-inning.
And it's a gateway.
That once you sort of understand the Quartz 2D
APIs, you can leap from there to other technologies.
You can use it partly with other things of wholly,
completely write your app on the level of Quartz 2D.
So it's a nice sort of front door to a lot of
interesting technologies that are part of Mac OS X.
So where is it in the system?
For historical reasons, it's also referred to as
core graphics and Image I/O and I may in the course
of this talk refer to Quartz 2D by either of those names.
Those are historical.
It is called Quartz 2D from my point of view.
So when you want to look for the header files,
you'll want to look in these two frameworks.
This architectural diagram, this sort of
gives you a flavor of how things fit together.
All the green parts are part of the
graphics and media technologies.
So Quartz 2D and core image and core
video are all pretty much peers.
Build on top of those are core animation, PF kit, Image kit,
all layered on top of Quarts Open
GL in the graphics hardware.
Quartz text, I'm not going to talk about
today, but I wanted to mention it.
It's a very nice framework in Leopard that's integrated
very tightly to Quartz 2D, lets you do- lots of things
that you wanted to do with text,
but at a Quartz 2D friendly way.
So it's a really powerful new framework,
and definitely worth checking out.
So how would you use Quartz 2D in your
world and whatever apps you're writing?
Of course in Cocoa, a lot of people already
are using the Cocoa drawing classes.
And so those are perfectly fine for many applications.
But there are times when you want to drop down
a level, maybe you are worried about performance
or maybe there's some things in Quartz 2D that
isn't quite expressed in Cocoa the way you want to.
You just want some finer grain control.
So it's appropriate in certain circumstances to drop down
into the Quartz 2D C APIs if you, even if you're using Cocoa.
Of course in Carbon, if you're a Carbon
developer, Quartz 2D is the drawing API you use.
Because it is a C framework, it's appropriate
for both C and C++ developers.
Its very light weight.
So it's definitely something you might want to
use, that you will be using in Carbon development.
Some people don't realize that Quartz 2D is
not just a window system and its not just sort
of you know the stuff that appears in the screen.
You can use Quartz 2D at the tool and script level and sort
of down the command line to build up either complex
or simplified, simple scripts, maybe dynamic
web page generation, things like that.
So you don't really need to have
a windows system to use Quartz 2D.
You can work at the lower level if you want to.
And in Leopard we have bridge support which lets you do
more scriptable tasks in languages that you may prefer
to work in but still call the Quartz 2D API.
So you can use Ruby or Python if you're familiar
with those to do interesting things using Quartz 2D
without actually having to sort of drop into
writing the C program and all that kind of stuff.
And there's some samples in this directory that I mentioned,
are worth check out if that's something
you're interested in.
So today I'm going to focus on a simple example, sort of give
you a sense of what it would be like to use Quartz 2Ds APIs
in your app if you were for example
writing something like Pages.
So Pages, complicated app, does lots of things,
but basically it builds up graphics content.
I'm going to walk you through some things Pages does
to give, and show you the APIs that correspond to that,
to give you a flavor of how in your application
you might use some similar type of work.
And also sort of get you, give you a sense of what
Quartz 2D, what the Quartz 2D API is capabl-e of.
So we're going to do a really simple thing.
We're going to try building up a flyer
using just the Quartz 2D APIs alone.
Of course in Pages this would be really simple
You just pull those things together.
We're going to build this up using  Quartz 2D API,
sort of a programmatic flyer generator if you will.
But first we need to go over some fundamental ideas that
are part of the Quartz 2D model just to get you familiar
with what's behind the scenes and what you
need to understand to start using Quartz 2D.
The first important concept is that we build
everything on top of these opaque data types,
abstract certain ideas in the graphics architectural system.
And, and a very simple sort of object like style.
So of course we are C APIs, so we're not, there's not
C++ or Objective-C or anything like that.
But the model, the concept, the way we
design the architecture is similar in flavor.
So you will work with the sort of, excuse me, opaque data
types in a similar fashion that you might work with objects
in Objective-C. And because of that we
have, follow sort of similar models.
Of course we function based rather than method based.
But the ideas are the same.
We have functions which create these objects.
We have sort of the equivalent of
accessors but you know CG image get width
for example, get height, for example, things like that.
Functions which act on objects, CG
contents draw image for example.
And so on.
And so we, we try to follow this model of, of sort
of an object like system to give you a flavor of,
its not really object oriented exactly
but it's the same, same basic model.
Makes it much simpler to work with.
And as a consequence, you need to know a little bit
about memory management, so as usual with frameworks
that follow the core foundation model, which
we do, if you create an object, you own it.
And once you have created it, when you're
through with it, you must release it,
because you're the owner, you must release it.
You can use a standard core foundation function CF release.
For historical reasons, all of the different
object types have a corresponding release method
such as CG image release in this case.
But the key thing is that once you
create something, you have to release it.
If you don't release it, it'll leak and that's bad.
On the other hand, if you don't actually own it,
if you didn't create it, you don't release it.
If you just get it, the model is
sort of you either create or you get.
If you just get it, you don't release it.
But sometimes you need to keep things around
even though you didn't create it directly.
So in that case, again following the
corporate foundation model, you retain it.
CF retain is the function you use.
Again for historical reasons there specific
functions for each of the object types.
So that's sort of the basics of memory management.
It's exactly like core foundation, those of you who
are familiar with that will be familiar with this.
It's also very similar to the standard Objective-C model.
( Period of silence )
Another concept that's important
to understand at the beginning
of Quartz 2D is how we work with the coordinates system.
Of course we're a graphic system.
So you're going to be drawing things
into some coordinates system.
And the question is how do you sort of, how do
we model the coordinate system for you to draw.
The key is that we have a flexible model
where by you change the coordinates system.
You don't change your objects.
This is sort of again in keeping with
the idea of object oriented programming.
The model that we use as our coordinate system changes
in order to change the orientation or scale factor
in sort of an object, not the object itself.
And there are functions CG conduct scale, CTM,
rotate, translate, that modify the coordinate system,
CTM in this case stands for coordinate
transformation matrix.
And that lets you do really powerful effects
without having to sort of incur the costs
of creating new objects or doing the work yourself.
So for example, imagine we have our coordinate system,
the standard one that you get for you when you start
up using Quartz 2D and here we have an image that's drawn
at certain coordinates and they think, oh but that's nice
but we really want to scale it down, we want to shrink it.
Now in some graphic systems, you would have to create a
new image, scale it down yourself and then draw the result.
Using Quartz 2D, instead the model
is you modify the coordinates system.
You shrink the coordinates system
and then you draw your same image.
And on our side, we do the hard work of scaling the
image down, getting to the right location, anti aliasing
or sampling so that it looks beautiful and you get sort of
the nice result without doing too much work on your part.
Similarly to rotate, rather than you doing anything directly
to the image, instead you rotate the coordinate system.
Then you draw your image and we'll
do the work to draw it rotated.
And there's another little tricky
thing you can do for flipping.
It turns out that corresponds to a translate
over and then a scale by negative one to flip.
And you know I'm going through this pretty fast,
so I don't expect you to necessarily you know
understand all the mathematics behind all this,
but this is something that as you learn
about Quartz 2D and as you work with it,
the coordinate system transformations
will become more familiar to you
and they're also something that's pretty important
to understand how they play into the whole game.
And the key thing is that you modify the coordinate
system to change your objects, not the objects themselves.
So as an example of that, a specific one, here we
image let's suppose somebody you know I want you
to draw two rectangles, a blue one and a green one.
The blue one is at 0, 0 width and height is 100 and 100.
And the green one is twice as big at a different location.
You could, of course, and a lot of systems assume you would,
create two different rectangles and draw them in two points.
The nice, and you know I realize rectangles are trivial,
but image this is a PDF page or something more complex.
The nice thing in Quartz 2D is that what you do instead
is you move your coordinate system over to a new location,
the location you want to draw your rectangle.
You scale up by a factor of 2 and
then you draw the same rectangle.
Because our coordinate system is changed, we're now,
we now draw a larger rectangle at a new location.
So that's a key idea in the Quartz 2D model, that
you work with a coordinate system, not the object.
( Period of silence )
So those are sort of some high level abstraction ideas.
Let's talk about the actual primitives that
you have available to you in Quartz 2D to draw.
Quartz paths, pretty fundamental, very important.
We have dotted lines, you have open
curves, you have something complex,
a complex path like the state of California there.
The little circular rings are actually two paths,
two circles with the interior fill, filled.
The two stars show different draw angles.
A number of ways to work with paths in Quartz 2D.
-
Images, of course through the Image I/O
framework, we have full support for JPEG, PNG
to pretty much any image format
that's available in the world almost.
And as you saw with a little animation we also support
progressive JPEG so you sort of can pull in data
from some external source and display it incrementally.
PDF support, been built in from the
beginning, part of Quartz 2D, very fundame-ntal.
Any PDF file that you have available
we can draw the pages from, display it.
You can use those in your application as either
like little thumbnails or display as a whole page.
Could be really useful for built in
artwork that you want to be scalable rather
than having everything sort of converted to an image.
You can start out with a PDF and then the things that are
naturally scalable, such as text and line art will remain so
and things that are you know maybe more device depend,
resolution dependent such as images will scale up nicely.
But you'll keep the, sort of preserved in the resolution
in an independent way.
So it's really useful and we starting to use more
and more PDF throughout the system in
terms of just our artwork and our UI.
Text is another part of Quartz 2D.
-
As I mentioned Core Text is the right
way to go about using Quartz 2D in text.
It's a really powerful framework and you
can do lots of these cool special effects.
Excuse me.
So now those are some of the objects
that you have to work with.
And the part that, that's important about the Quartz 2D
basic drawing model is what's called the painters model,
or the painters algorithm.
And this is just the way we express content in Quartz 2D.
It's very simple.
The idea is that just like with a painter, as
you put content down, one on top of another,
only the things that are not obscured
are going to be visible.
So image we start out with a flight
background and we draw a gradient on top of it.
Pretty simple.
Now we draw our image on top of that.
We draw out little logo on top of that.
We draw our PDF file on top of that.
So you see we're sort of building up back to the front.
And that back to front build of
content is the way Quartz 2D works.
And we do a lot of tricks and handle things very efficiently
where we can just sort of make that as fast as possible.
But that's sort of the general idea of you started from
the back and you sort of move up to build your content.
And those of you who are used to Cocoa programming,
programming and so on will understand
this exactly the same model.
Another piece as I mentioned earlier, that's important about
Quartz 2D to understand is alpha transparency,
the amount of, of transparency an object has.
This is built into the Quartz model.
In this case, we have an alpha for every color.
So a color has not just the red, green, blue components
but also the amount of transparency, how transparent it is.
So here we have our little cookie and we're
going to draw a blue rectangle with Alpha one.
That is fully opaque.
Well, not surprisingly, the cookie is
you know obscured by our blue rectangle.
Now we take the same cookie, we're going to
turn down the alpha on the blue rectangle
so the alpha is now point 5, that
is its 50 percent transparent.
When we draw it of course, the cookie
shows up with the little blue on top of it.
You can still see through.
And then alpha zero, that is fully transparent, no opacity
at all, we're going to draw our blue rectangle, oh there it is.
It turns out you can't really see it
because of course its transparent.
And that's alpha zero.
So that, the idea of alpha as part of the
color is a fundamental part of Quartz 2D.
In addition though, there's also alpha
as part of the objects window drawn.
So in the same way we can sort of change the coordinates
transformation matrix or change the coordinate system,
we can also change the alpha when we composite.
So that things become more or less transparent depending
upon what the global, we call it global alpha is.
So here we have our white rectangle and we're
going to draw a cookie and the cookie is, has when we,
when we draw it we set the global alpha to one
that is everything that's drawn is fully
opaque, relative to the, to the object itself.
So the cookie shows up fully opaque.
Now we do the same thing again, but
we're going to turn the global alpha
down to point 5, that is 50 percent transparent.
And now the cookie is sort of fading out.
So we decrease the alpha, we decrease the
transparency and now the cookie is less visible.
And then again, guess what we're going to do, we're
going to draw the cookie again, global alpha is zero.
As you see, or rather as you don't see, the cookie
doesn't show up because it's fully transparent.
So this is in the same way that we,
it sort of follows the same mode.
We don't change the object to get this effect.
We don't sort of choose our image and then have
to add an alpha mask and do all sorts of things.
Instead we just change the global alpha and
that changes the drawing when we draw it.
Another part that's important to Quartz 2D is our built
in color management that lets us preserve the fidelity
of colors, depending upon, independent of the output device.
So our input device, so you might have a high quality
camera that takes pictures and you get it printed
on some special printer and you want the thing you
saw when you took the picture to look exactly the same
as the thing that gets printed on the output.
And the key part is that with built in color management,
that's part of Quartz 2D, we can pres-erve the colors across,
across input to output device so that we don't have
sort of colors shifting and getting different results.
As you can see here, we have something
that's not color managed.
Things are a little, color is a little off.
When it is color managed, the colors stay true.
( Period of silence )
So that's sort of the
concepts behind the various objects.
A very important object that we have as well is the,
is something that abstracts the drawing destination.
As I said earlier, we're device independent.
What that means is that we, when we go to different output
devices such as here is illustrated you know like a window
or maybe a PDF file, your printer, bit map, we
want to be able to have something that represents
that drawing destination that's sort of an
abstraction of that idea without necessarily tying this
to specific behavior of any one of those destinations.
So the way we express that in the Quartz
2D API is with the CG context ref.
The core, CG, core graphics context ref.
It's an abstraction of the destination.
So when you write your code and use, use a Quartz 2D
APIs, you don't need to think about where you're going,
where the, where the result is going to end up.
You just write the same code and then we'll do the work
on the back end on our side to translate what you write
to either say for example PDF file or maybe
a bit map or maybe something on screen.
So as, as I mentioned here, there's a
number of different flavors of the context.
And the great thing is you don't
have to think about it too much.
You, once it's created for you, or once you're
created it yourself, you just use the same API
and you get the same results on
all the different destinations.
So how do you get one of these
things to work with it directly
if you're wanting to say use Quartz 2D API yourself?
If you're using Cocoa, there's the standard
model of course is that you have an NS view.
And you have a draw rect method.
And in the draw rect method you do your drawing.
So that's the natural place to get the
core graphics context to work with.
So in your draw rect you do this little sequence
of operations and you get a contents of, the,
the names are a little confusing for historical reasons.
Its, it's a little baroque but basically
you start out by getting a NS graphic context,
which is not the same thing as a core, a CG context.
From that NS Graphics context, which is a Cocoa
concept you get the so-called graphics port.
Now that is your CG context ref.
And from that point you can tell
do all your Quartz 2D drawing.
So you sort of follow the same little
sequence and you get your context every time.
On the other hand, if you're using Carbon, you'll
typically have an event handler on the HI view and your,
your drawing in the event handler, you
use this nice little piece of code,
just copy it and it will give you back a context.
So that's an important way to get the, that's a way
to get both the context in from Carbon and Cocoa.
So we, the context abstracts the
drawing destination and you can think
about you know you don't have to
think about where you're ending up.
PDF or on screen or whatever.
And inside the context is also a set of state
that is maintained for you when you're drawing.
So some graphics models require you to set
the state say in the call to draw a line,
that's when you have to well draw
this line but also make sure it's red
and make sure it's this thick and
make sure it's dotted and so on.
So the Quartz model is a little different in that there's
a persistent state that's part of the context that hangs
around and is maintained for you so
you don't have to always be changing
or setting the state every time you do a drawing operation.
You can set it once and then draw a number of things.
Some of the things that are part of the state, the
stroke color for a line, fill color, the interior fill.
And of course the coordinates, coordinate
transformation matrix that I mentioned before.
How the coordinate system looks when you draw to it.
Things like the line width that's on parameters
that are part of the stroking operation,
global alpha I mentioned earlier, shadows, blend modes
a whole bunch of things are part of the graphics state.
So all of those are maintained
for you in the context itself.
So that's, that's a nice collection
of things for, for you to work with.
the problem though is that sometimes you want to change
the state and then get back to where it was before
without necessarily sort of having to save all the, these
parameters yourself and remember what they were and so on.
And the model that we use in core graphics
is what's known as a graphics stack.
So we take our graphics state and we have a stack of
states and you can preserve the state and restore the state
in order to sort of temporarily modify the context
state and then get it back to what it was before.
So in our case, here we have an example maybe of the simple
state you can imagine, just a stroke color and fill color
and of course there's a whole bunch
of parameters other than that.
But let's just look at these two.
And we imagine that we want to change the fill color, not
really worrying about what it was and then fill something
and then we're going to return back
to the state we were before.
So the idea that, the API that you
use is CG context, save G state.
That's basically is going to save the graphic state
for you and push a copy of it on the graphics stack
that you can modify freely and then we're
going to restore it back when we are done.
So we've made a copy of the graphic
state and push it on the stack.
And now we're going to change the fill color.
Let's say we just change it to green.
That's nice, change it to green.
And notice that we're just changing the current
state, not the stuff that's saved on the stack.
We do our, you know whatever we want to draw in green color.
And then we're done and we want to
return back to the state we had before.
So you kind of restore G state, we'll take the current state
and pop it off and it restores back to the saved state.
So we go back to the previous state.
So this is actually a really powerful model in that you can
just change the parameters you care about and return back
to where you were before without having to
sort of keep track of everything yourself.
We do a lot of the work on our side
to keep track of things for you.
This is something that those of you who use Cocoa have had
happen for you implicitly for since the beginning of Cocoa.
In your draw rect method, right
before the draw rect method is called,
Cocoa with call this save G state to save the graphic state.
In your draw rect method, you can
change things all you want as you know.
And it doesn't affect any other drawing in the system.
And you may have wondered, well why is that?
Well because they save the G state right
before they call your draw rect method.
When you return to your draw rect
method, they restore the G state.
So any changes you made are basically
isolated only to your draw rect method.
So that's a really powerful simple model that makes
things a lot simpler for you when you actually do,
it's rather than having to do state management.
( Period of silence )
So this is all fine.
We've gotten a lot of ideas down,
but we haven't done anything.
So we need, lets start now just to actually start drawing.
And we do the simplest thing we can do which
is just filling and stroking a rectangle.
It's about, you can't do that on a graphic
system, you might as well throw it out.
So to do this again, we start out, we have this idea of
this abstraction of the drawing destination, the context.
And we have a little structure called the CG rect that
represents a rectangle, it's just four point values.
And there are some convenience functions that
let you fill and stroke a rectangle very simply.
And as a bonus there's also something
that lets you fill and stroke an ellipse.
That's pretty easy to do either
the erect or the ellipse case.
We'll just talk about the rectangle for the moment.
And I'll just walk you through some code that
takes a context and fills a rectangle with a green,
a blue color and then strokes its
outline with the green color.
This is a pretty simple function that gives
you a flavor of how Quartz 2D API works.
So we first create our rectangle, this CG
rect may call to create this structure.
The first two parameters are the origin, 10, 10.
The last two parameters are the width and the height.
And once we've created a rectangle
we're going to fill it with blue.
And let's imagine, I'll talk about this in a moment
that there's some magic function called my
get blue color that returns a blue color.
So we're going to set the fill color and the context to blue.
And then we're going to fill a rectangle.
So that's pretty much all there is to it.
What we have at that point suddenly is a
rectangle appears at the right location
with the right color and we're very happy.
Now we're going to stroke the rectangle
with an outline of green.
So in the same way we imagined
as a function my get green color,
and that's going to return a green
color that we set as a stroke color.
And now we're going to stroke the rectangle.
In this case we're going to stroke it,
but we're also going to pass in the width.
The, the width of the line that we want to
stroke it with and we call this function,
we get a rectangle that's stroked
with a green, green outline.
The part that's important to note about Quartz 2D
model is its- stroking is on both sides of the path.
So when I say I want to stroke width
to be 10, the total width is 10,
but I really get five on one side, five on the other side.
So the model of having the stroke appear on both
sides is pretty fundamental and it's important
to note that this is the way we do things.
Now I'm going to do the same thing but I'm just
going to change the order of the operations.
And this is going to illustrate a couple of ideas.
One is the idea of saving the graphic state and if
there is a graphic state that keeps state for you,
there's also the idea of translating or moving the
coordinate system and then sort of showing you also a bit
of the idea of painters model, how the
order of operations is fundamental.
So I begin by saving the graphic state.
That's going to save everything so we don't change,
so we can preserve our, our state and return back.
Now I'm going to translate the, the CTM.
That means we're going to translate
the coordinate system over by 200.
So we've just moved our origin
over by 200 in the X direction.
And now we're going to do the same
operations the other way around.
We're first going to stroke the rectangle,
same way, with the green color.
Now notice that because we have a graphic
state stack, we don't reset the stroke color.
The stroke color hasn't changed.
It's still green.
So we don't set the color to green again.
We just know its going to be green.
So now we stroke the rectangle.
We get a green stroked rectangle.
And now we're going to fill the rectangle.
And its color is going to be blue.
Why? Because the part of the graphics state and we haven't
the fill color so it's the same as what we set it before.
So it's going to be blue.
And now you see we draw the blue
rectangle on top of the green stroke.
And you can see how the stroke is on the inside and
on the outside because the line is a little thinner.
And also because the painters model, we're
on top of the, the thing we've drawn before.
So we have a blue rectangle occurring on top.
So it's visually going to be different.
And then finally we're going to restore the graphic state.
And notice that we're not undoing our change
to the coordinate transformation matrix.
That is going to automatically happen
since its part of the graphics state.
It's going to automatically undo in the sense because
we're restoring the graphic state to what it was before.
So we know have the origin moved back.
And you can go on to draw as many rectangles as you'd like.
So that's fine.
That's a, that's a very simple case.
Just a rectangle.
( Period of silence )
It's much more interesting to start drawing an image
and how would go about doing that in Quartz 2D?
Because we need to get our flyer because our boss is
demanding the flyer soon so we better get it going.
So there's a number of functions that work with images that
workhorses that are very basic that you'll want to use most
of the time are 3D functions t=hat let you
create an image from a file and then draw it.
There's an image source, create with URL.
An image source is an abstraction of the data on disk.
It's not actually an abstraction of the idea of an image.
It's the abstraction of the data on disk.
Once you have an image source, you can create an image.
So a CG image is the abstraction of just the
date, of the image itself, the image's data.
You can create an image from an image
source and then once you have image
and you have a context, you can
draw the image into the context.
So here's a bit of code that illustrates those ideas.
Again, imagine that we have a context that's been
created for us or that we're in a draw rect routine.
And someone's handed us a URL that probably references an
image file on disk or maybe someplace else in the system.
And we're going to create an image and draw it from that URL.
So the first thing we do is create
an image source from the URL.
And you'll notice I don't do any
error checking or anything like that.
That's because otherwise you'd be really
bored with all the code on the screen
You'll normally need to check all that.
This is very optimistic programming where we
believe that everything succeeds all the time.
So there is some error checking I've left out.
In this case, we create an image source.
And that is going to represent the file on disk.
Next you create an image from the image source.
It turns out that although most image
file formats only contain a single image.
Some can contain multiple images
so that zero after the image source
in this call is the index of the image in the image source.
And of course this function is to
get the number of images and so on.
In this case we're going to get the
first one, the zero item.
The standard way and once we have the
image, we, we release the image source.
Because we created it, we must release it.
So we release the image source.
And now we want to draw the image into our context.
So the CG context image draw takes
a rectangle and when you specify
that rectangle what Quartz will do is
scale your image into that rectangle.
In our case, we want to draw an image in a certain location,
but we want it to be as big as the image itself is.
We don't want to sort of shrink down or anything.
We want to make sure it's the same size as the image.
So we use a sort of pseudo accessor
functions to access these,
these functions that return but
within the height of an image.
So that when we create a rectangle, it'll
be at the origin 200, 100, but its width
and height will be exactly the,
the rectangles width and height.
I mean sorry, the widgets width and height.
Once we've created our rectangle,
we just call CG context draw image.
And that will show it up at the right location,
the right way and then since we created the image,
earlier we had the CG source create image and index, we
must release it to make sure that we don't leak memory.
So those are the steps that, that
you go through to draw an image.
I mean it's actually pretty simple.
There's not a lot of work going on.
And you know error checking and making sure it's in the
right location is sometimes its a little bit more code.
But the basic idea is exactly this.
This is how you use Quartz 2D APIs to draw images.
( Period of silence )
So now we've drawn a path and we've sort of
implicitly talked about there's these magic functions
that return colors, green color, blue
color, how do, how do those actually work.
So to draw with color in Quartz 2D, you first
need to understand what we think a color is.
So for Quartz, a color is a color space,
which I'll talk about in a second.
The components themselves that specify the color value, so
for example, if its an RGB color, red, green, blue color,
the components would specify the amount of
red, the amount of green, the amount of blue.
And for us also a color always includes the alpha value, the
amount of transparency, whether it's opaque or transparent.
So the colors are those the components,
the alpha and the color space.
So what's a color space?
At the biggest level a color space just
specifies what model you're working in.
Whether you're using RGB for example
or CMIK or LAB or device N or index.
There's a whole bunch of different styles.
A lot of the time you're going to be working with RGB.
You're going to be drawing stuff on screen.
You're familiar with an RGB color space.
So the biggest level, biggest picture it just that
it says how many components are there in this color?
Three? Four?
One? But in addition, color spaces can contain information
that lets you have high fidelity color management.
So as we saw before in the previous slide, you know the
built in color management uses the color space to make sure
that colors are represented accurately
from device input to device output.
That said, a lot of the time for most application
developers, there's a, there's a special color space we have
in Mac OS X, the generic, that's a name.
It doesn't really mean generic.
It's the name.
Which works just fine.
Its lets you do high fidelity color on
output, on input and it's just sufficient.
So we're going to focus on just the generic color space today.
One, in Leopard, its now a lot simpler
to work with colors in that space.
We have a function that creates a RGB color
and a CMIK color and a gray color and so on.
In the, in the color space, in the generic
color space directly from color parameters.
So you pass in the red, green, blue values along with
your alpha of course and you get out a CG color ref.
The CG color ref is the abstraction of a
color that encapsulates all these pieces.
In addition, there's a function, a
new function that lets you return,
that returns a constant, so called constant color.
You pass in a name, you get a color out that
it's sort of the same across the whole system.
And those of you who have used Cocoa will be familiar
with this from the NS color function or methods,
you know there's an NS color, red color,
you know the green color and so on.
So this is the same basic idea.
And this is new in Leopard.
Once you have a color, we've seen this already,
you can change the color in the context
by calling either of these two functions.
There's a couple other functions you can work with as well.
CG context of fill color with color, so
you pass in a CG Color that you've created
to change the fill color or the stroke color.
So this is a, this is almost too
simple of a function to illustrate.
What was that my get blue color that we saw earlier?
Well the idea behind that function is that it
returns a blue color every time it's called
and because it's a get function,
we don't have to release it.
Its just going to return the same one.
So as usual with that type of model, we're going to have a
static variable that's going to hold on to the color for us
and after checking to make sure we need to initialize it,
we do a very simple operation, CG Color create generic RGB.
That creates the CG color that represents blue.
The components are red, green, blue, alpha.
And as I said before, the, the amount of each
component is a number between zero and one,
so in this case we have no zero red, no green, one full 100
percent blue and for the alpha value again, 100 percent.
That means fully opaque.
So this is an opaque blue color.
And then we just return it as, once we've created it.
So this is a pretty, this, this type of,
of a little piece of code is pretty good
for colors that you use over and over and over.
For colors that are one offs, if you're going to
create them and then use them and then get rid
of them, you might not have something like this.
But this is really good if you have a
set of colors that you use all the time.
So once you have a color, you know
you want to actually color things.
So what can you color?
Well a path is a standard thing.
As we saw before, rectangle, we've
both filled and stroked it.
But paths are much more complex in, in Quartz 2D.
-
Paths in Quartz 2D consist of pretty simple pieces.
They're made up of a line segment or, or
sets of line segments, besia (sp?) or cubic,
sorry besia (sp?), cubic or quadratic curves.
So a path sort of is built up over these fundamental pieces
and once you've created a path you
can do a number of things to it.
So paths are open in the sense that they have
a different start point and an end point.
That's a possibility.
They can be closed, which means that they have a
different, sorry, the same start and the same end point.
And a path can consist of more than just a
single section of you know lines and arches.
It can actually consist of multiple
sub paths that are disjoint.
In this case, in the right hand illustration, really
that's actually four sub paths that comprise a single path.
The two little line segments and the two circles all are
sub paths that are part of the single big path itself.
So excuse me, so paths in, in Quartz 2D
can be actually very complex and very rich.
You can do an awful lot of stuff with that.
And then what's nice too is we
have some convenience functions
that let you do simple things like just add a rectangle.
We sort of saw the rectangle functions before,
our ovals, arcs, so you don't have to think
about how do I get a circle from
a set of besia (sp?) cubic curves.
We do that for you.
The way you work with a path is there
are two ways to work with paths.
The context itself, the, that draw gestation
abstraction contains a path within it implicitly.
And so you can work directly with
the context to build up a path.
And once you've built up the path in the context, you can
then stroke is or fill it, do some other operations to it.
So that's one model for working with paths.
That's a, that's a simple model where you just
need to sort of you know build up a rectangle
or a couple circles and just stroke or fill them.
Sometimes though you actually want to create a path
yourself that you hang onto and then that you use later.
And we have CG path functions, the CG path object is sort
of the abstraction of all this various pieces of a path.
And those let you work and build up a path
directly that you can hang onto and reuse.
Those of you who have used Cocoa know
about the NS besia (sp?) path probably.
NS besia (sp?) path is essentially
a cover for these functions,
so you pretty much have the same
functionality of both levels.
They're not really doing much other than just calling
into the CG functions directly to hang onto a path.
Once you have a path, you can add it to the
context to, to be drawn or stroked or filled just
like you would if you use the implicit one.
So we're going to go through a, a pretty simple
example of returning a path from the rectangle.
This path is going to represent a rectangle.
So it's a bit overkill, but it gives you
the flavor of the way Quartz 2D APIs work.
You begin by creating a mutable path.
This is the core foundation model
of mutability verses immutability.
So you create a mutable path that you're going to modify.
You begin first by moving in the path to a particular point.
In this case, the origin of the rectangle.
And then we add a line to the right
hand corner of the rectangle.
Add the next line to the upper
right hand corner of the rectangle.
Add the next line to the upper left hand corner of the
rectangle and now rather than adding another line back
to the origin, which would be okay but it doesn't actually
create a closed path, it just creates an open path
that happens to start into the same point.
We're going to go ahead and close the sub path and
implicitly add the last line back to the origin.
So that's our rectangular point.
I mean sorry, excuse me our rectangular path.
So that's, that's a flavor of how you build up paths.
Of course rectangles are simple and, and most
applications you're going to do something more complex.
And then we return it.
So this creates the rectangular path from this path.
But now we want to actually do something with that rectangle.
And we're going to talk a little bit about how you might
create this, this fancy little logo for your flyer.
And if somebody came to you and said,
oh, draw this logo for me please.
I, this is, the artist said this is
what I want and I'm supposed to do it.
Might think oh my goodness, this is
a lot of stuff I have to worry about.
But I'm going to show you how you do
this same little bit of artwork
with some very simple code just leverage again
the idea of path reuse, alpha transparency values,
coordinate transformations so that you can end
up with this little logo on the bottom right.
So we're going to start out first by
imagining we have our context of course.
And someone is, we specified the rectangle we
want to use, so we're going to begin by creating a path.
That was as we saw before to represent that rectangle.
Of course that could be more complex
than just a simple rectangular path.
It could be any shape.
And we're going to start out by saying
we're going to set the context color
to be blue, because we want to draw a blue rectangle.
And the first thing we're going to do is set the alpha value.
In this case, as you read the code, we're going to
set it to one, we're going to make it fully opaque.
So we're going to draw a fully opaque blue rectangle,
color and the context is blue and global alpha is blue.
And we begin our path and we add
the rectangular path to the context.
And then we fill it.
This is not surprising, we get a blue rectangle.
You could do this more simply of course with other code.
But this idea is, is you know the path
is could be more complex and, and more,
more you know not just a simple rectangle.
And then we rotate our coordinate system.
So we're going to now draw this same thing
again but within a rotated coordinate system.
In this case the rectangle is going to be draw rotated.
Even though the rectangle itself is not
changed, the coordinate system changed.
So the rectangle now will be rotated.
So now we go through our loop again.
We decrease the global alpha value
and set it in the context.
So now we're going to draw everything
with a slightly more transparent value.
The same basic operation.
We begin the path, add the path, the rectangle to the
context and then fill it and now we have the blue rectangle
but in the rotated coordinate system,
little bit more transparent.
So now you have the, the second piece of the logo.
And now we just do the same thing over and over.
Again we rotate the coordinate system.
We draw our rectangle with the
global alpha decreased even further.
Rotate the coordinate system, draw the rectangle,
rotate the coordinate system, draw the rectangle.
And so on.
So you can see we get a relatively complex
effect with actually not very much code.
And, and we're pulling in the whole idea of being
able to change the coordinate transformation matrix
so that we get this effect of rotating
the system and also reusing the path over
and over so we're not creating a new object
each time so our memory use is better.
Excuse me.
And we just change the global alpha
rather than setting a new color each time.
We can use the global alpha to decrease the, the opacity.
And so this gives you a really complex
effect with not very much work.
And then of course as usual, we have
created the path, so we must release it.
( Period of silence )
So now we have a number of pieces of our flyer
We have image, we have our little funny logo and we
had a gradient in the background that we want to include.
And this gradient is pretty subtle, so
I'm going to use a, a much of bolder gradient
to illustrate the way you work
with gradients in Quartz 2D APIs.
This is new in Leopard and it's based on feedback
from developers who said that the existing method
of what's called shadings was too complicated.
So we have a new thing in Leopard, lets
you work directly with gradients, much,
much simpler, much more developer friendly.
So the idea behind a gradient is that
it's just an abstraction of an array
of colors on a line, range from zero to one.
So here we have an example where
our gradient is three colors.
The first color starts at zero, the last color ends at one.
So the first color is red, last color is blue.
And we have another color in the middle at point 5.
Of course you can put those colors anywhere you want.
And as many as you'd like in the gradient.
So sort of get a, the effects you're looking for.
And once you set those colors in this line
from zero to one, when you use the gradient,
you specify a start point and an end point.
And the current transformation, the
matrix of the coordinates system
and the clip region determine how the extent of the gradient
is drawn sort of basically the orientation of the gradient.
So the gradient this follows a lot of our same model.
You create an object and then you change the system, the
context parameters to change the way the object is drawn.
So in this case we have an example on the lower left
corner of the gradient with an origin sort of in the middle
of this rectangle and an end point
at the top of the rectangle
and then the clip region is probably the whole rectangle.
So we just see it inside there.
We might set the same state up in the middle case and maybe
change the start point in there to point to the corners,
or maybe we rotate our coordinate system 45 degrees
so that we get this other effect for the middle case.
And then the far right case we've done the same type
of thing, we've changed our start and end point,
but we've also changed our clip region to be an ellipse.
So you get this gradient and this ellipse
without actually doing a lot of work.
And I'm going to walk you through some of
the code necessary to do these effects.
Another thing that's important about gradients is
there's the linear version which is just showed you
but we also have radial gradients
that fill a circular region.
And the area that you clip to can
be any complex shape you want.
So here we've clipped to this letter B. It could be
more complex than that to get the nice gradient effect.
The functions you use to work with
gradients, there's one main one.
The workhorse function, CG gradient create with colors that
lets you specify an array of colors and a set of points.
So putting those colors along the line.
There's a, a more primitive function that
could be useful for certain developers
where you specify the components explicitly
without creating the colors directly.
And once you've created a gradient, you can
draw it using CG context draw linear gradient
to draw a linear one or the radial version for a radial one.
And you specify start end point, some
options and you have your nice gradient.
So here's an example of drawing gradients
using Quartz 2D APIs for Leopard.
We begin by imaging that we have a
rectangle that we want to fill with a gradient.
So we create this rectangle.
Its origin is zero, zero.
It's width and height is 100, 100.
We're going to create a, just a sea array of colors.
We're going to to start with the color,
the first color is going to be blue.
It's going to transition to green, then
turn to red just as I showed you before.
And in order to use the CG gradient API, we need
to create a CF array from the standard colors.
This is just a core foundation code
that you probably are familiar with.
You create a CF array passing in the
set of colors and the number of colors.
And you call CG gradient, create with color.
So you pass in this array of colors.
And the, I mentioned before that you should pass in the
locations where the colors go on this line from zero to one.
As a convenience, if you just pass in null, what we do
is we distribute those points uniformly along the line.
So in this case, the first color is going to go blue,
the second color green is going to go at point 5.
Or the first color will be blue at
zero, the second color will be green
at point 5 and the last color will be red at one.
So we do that work for you if you
just need to have a uniform gradient.
This is particularly useful if you're just doing a gradient
with two colors where you know it's going to be zero to one.
And as usual, we've create this array so we must release it.
Now I said before, the way gradients work
is they fill the current clip region.
And I'll talk about clipping in a second.
The idea is just, this is the area
where, where the drawing is going to go,
so we're going to clip to the rectangle
that we want the gradient to fill.
And then we draw our gradient.
In this case it's linear.
And we specify the start point where
the zero value of the gradient maps to.
In this case, the point is 50 0, that is 50
in the X direction, zero in the Y direction.
So the bottom middle of the, of the rectangle.
And we specify an end point, CG point
make 50 100 that is 50 in the X direction
in the middle, 100 at the top of the rectangle.
So the middle top of the rectangle.
And we draw it and that's all you
have to do to get the gradient.
And of course we've created it so we have to release it.
So this is much simpler than the code you would
have to write in Tiger to do the same effect.
And we've really taken your feedback
to heart around some of these things.
There's a class in Cocoa as well and
this gradient that works similarly.
Again, built right on top of the CG code.
In case you want to use that.
so we built up a gradient, we've built
our image, we've got our fancy logo,
the last piece is to put this little Italian
Velo Tours logo thingy on top of our flyer.
So that we imagine is going to come in from a PDF file.
Someone has created that for us.
And we want to draw it in our context.
So how do you do that by using Quartz 2D?
So I mentioned before with images there's an image source
which is the abstraction of the image data on disk.
Similarly with PDF there's a CG PDF document
which is the abstraction of the PDF file on disk.
And the document sort of is, is a way you, you talk
about and ask questions about the document data.
From the document you can get a page in the PDF
file, CG PDF page ref is the abstraction of a page.
For historical reasons, pages start at one, not at zero.
Just the way it is.
So you, you sort of work with doc, PDF
documents in a similar way you work with images.
Just a slightly different type.
So as you might image, CG PDF document create with URL,
is going to create a PDF document CG
PDF document ref from a URL you specify.
Once you have the document, you can
ask things like the number of pages,
number of other properties, lots
of properties you can ask about.
And once you have the page you want, you can
call CG PDF document get page to return a page.
And then you can draw that page in the context.
So this is almost too simple of an example.
But this is walking you through this exact idea of how
would you create a or rather how would you draw a page
from a PDF file onto your context destination?
Here we imagine again as with URL probably a
file URL that points to a PDF file in disk,
we note some page number we want to draw, maybe
it's the first page, probably in this case.
And we want to just draw another context.
So we, first we create a PDF document with our URL.
Again I've left out all the error checking code.
We get the page that we want to draw from the document.
And then we draw it.
That's it.
Everything else sort of happens behind the scenes in court.
So the page, the PDF page we've drawn for you at that point
and we created the document so you'll have to release it,
but notice that we didn't create the page.
CG PDF document is not going to get page.
It's the core foundation model again,
the get functions don't need a release.
You don't release the page once
you get it from the document.
You just release the document itself.
( Period of silence )
So that's great.
Now we've pretty much built up our little flyer.
And now let's image you say well, I'd
really like to spice it up a little bit.
Maybe I want to put that image in an ellipse.
Boy that's going to be hard.
Not really.
Clipping in the Quartz 2D API is the way you
can constrain your drawing to certain regions.
When you clip to a region, anything that's
outside that region won't be touched.
And anything inside that region is
only touched when you draw to it.
So you, you can actually get very sophisticated
and complex effects by using clipping in Quartz 2D.
The nice thing about using a path such as an ellipse to
clip is that that's implicitly resolution independent.
The paths are always resolution independent.
So you can, you get high quality results if
you clip to a path whether you're going to a,
your screen or to some 1200 specialized DPI printer.
The other point about clipping that's an important aspect
in Quartz 2D model is that we intersect not replace.
So when you clip, your new clipping area is the
intersection of the old one and the old you've specified.
So if they are disjoint and you clip, you will get no,
no drawing because the clipping area is a null set.
So the intersection, that's different
from some other graphics models.
The intersection is an important thing.
You might think oh my goodness, if I keep clipping, I'm
going to shrink down to nothing and then I can never get back.
The nice thing is the clipping area is part of
the graphic state, so as I talked about before,
in order to preserve the current clipping area, you would
save the graphic state, do your clipping, do your drawing
and then restore the graphic state to what it was before.
So you kind of restore G state.
So you can get back to where you were.
So this is a pretty powerful part of Quartz 2D
that lets you do lots of sophisticate effects.
In order to clip to a path, we
have a simple convenience function.
CG context is clipped direct, it will clip to a rectangle
or you can create a path in the context as I showed before
and then CG context clip will clip your
drawing to the path you set in the context.
So let's go through a simple example
of clipping an image to an ellipse.
So its, we're going to do the same image drawing we did before,
but now we're going to draw it so
it only shows up in this ellipse.
So the first part of the code, same as we saw earlier.
We image we can create an ellipse some how
and we have a rectangle we want to draw into.
So how do we actually draw the image in the ellipse.
We'll first we need to clip, we need to create
a clip region which is the elliptical area.
So we begin our path in the context.
We add an ellipse in the right, basically we're going to fill
that rectangle that we specify with, with the ellipse.
And we call CG Context Clip to set the current
clipping area to the interior of the ellipse.
Now everything that we draw will
only show up inside the ellipse.
So we're going to draw our image, only the
part that's inside the ellipse will show up.
And again we you know passing the image rect using
the width and height zone to get the right model.
So this is actually, this gives you some really
powerful effects without doing too much coding
and what's interesting is with all the special effects,
like in Keno and everything, they all sort of basically come
down to using this type of code, the clipping
area code and so on to get this affect.
And then as usual we created our
image so we have to release it.
Don't want any leaks.
So that's one type of clipping where we clip to the path.
Another type of clipping in Quartz
2D lets you clip to an image itself.
You can use an image, any, any gray scale image
as a mask to put, to specify where to put paint.
And because it's not necessarily one bit image or
you can use an A bit image or any other bit depth.
You can, the mask effectively acts like a transparency value
that will fade in or out your drawing so that you get more
or less paint if you will put on the destination.
And that can also give you a really powerful and really
interesting effects, by using the mask itself directly.
And it's very simple to use that.
You don't have to do a lot of work.
I'll just show you a simple example of clipping to a mask.
On the left hand side we have this teapot, lets
image that's our mask that someone has given us.
And we want to put color through it so that we get the
effect on the right hand side with the colored rectangles.
So what we're going to do is draw a set of colored
rectangles but first we're going to clip the context
to the masked image so that only paint
will show up where the image is non zero.
And the amount of paint, the amount of color that shows
up will be a fraction based on
the intensity of the masked image.
Excuse me.
We would use the function CG context
clip to mask to do this where we pass
in a rectangle just as before when we're drawing an image.
But also an image that acts as our mask.
In this case a teapot.
So now when we, once we set the, the teapot image
as our mask, when we draw each colored rectangle,
it's only going to show up where the teapot is non zero, where
the image data itself is non zero and the amount of color
that appears is a function of the,
the color values in the mask itself.
So you can sort of see this is, this, I mean
this is in some ways a, an artificial example.
But this gives you some really powerful and sophisticated
effects using just a very little bit of code.
In this case, CG context clip to mask.
And so you can do really interesting
things without doing very much work.
( Period of silence )
So lets, at this point we've built up
our flyer, we're very happy with it.
We want to send it to a friend.
And we don't want to send our program, because we're you
know we're imaging we're writing this whole piece of code
that the only purpose is to create this flyer.
So we don't want to send our program.
Instead we want to send a PDF file.
How would you get your con, the drawing that
you've been doing on the screen to a PDF file?
Well we, we want to export it to PDF and there's
a very easy way to do that in Quartz 2D.
To create the PDF content, we create
a special type of context, it's not,
it's again, you know the context are all abstract.
But it is, it is a specific contents that,
that knows how to draw to a PDF file.
Once you've created the PDF context or it's been
created for you maybe as part of the print system,
you can then use it to export it to your friend, you
can mail a PDF file off to a friend or something.
Or you can use it as a very high
resolution clipboard format.
It's, it's a really useful piece that you could
add to your application to get high quality output.
So how would you create a PDF context that specifically
is going to write to a PDF file, directly yourself?
There's a number of functions that
are used to create a PDF context.
In particular CF PDF context works great with URL, we
imagine as usual we have an output URL we'll write to.
And we have a default media box,
how big the PDF file will be.
Because we need to know on the Quartz
2D side, information about the PDF file,
we do have some functions that
are specific to a PDF context.
In this case, CG PDF context begin
page, CG PDF context end page.
Both of those functions let you tell
us when the page begins and ends.
That is a little different from other context.
Most other context don't need to know that.
You know for PDF we do.
One thing that's new in Leopard that its important to know
about particularly if you're working with garbage collection
or you implicitly will be because you're
say a plug in or something that gets loaded.
And it's the PDF context close function.
So this is sort of like finalize in
standard garbage collection lingo.
It, it tells us on the Quartz 2D side that you-'re finished
with the context and we can write out all the trailing data
and stuff like that that's special to PDF files.
And we'll do it as soon as you call that function.
In Tiger that was implicit in that when
the context was released, we would do that.
But the problem with that is if you're in the garbage
collection environment, you may be releasing next year.
You never know.
So you, we need to explicitly let you tell us when you're
finished with the PDF file, when you're finished writing
to the PDF output destination so that we can write
all the necessary meta data at the end of the file.
And rather than relying on the
sort of fragile release mechanism.
So here's a simple example of writing PDF content to a file.
The first that we need to do is create a default
media rect to do a default page size for our PDF file.
We want it to be, because this is what
works in the US, 8 and a half by 11 inches.
PDF is interesting in that its default coordinate
set and the coordinate set it works in is points.
And at 72 points per inch.
So we need to convert our 8 and
a half by 11 inches to points
and that's why we do this 8 point 5 times
72, 11 times 72 to convert that to points.
So to get the points for the, for the default page size.
And now we create our PDF context
from the URL that's passed in.
That's going to be our destination.
And we pass in a media rect that
specifies the default page size.
So we don't do anything else.
Everything else, every page will be 8 and a half by 11.
We need to as I mentioned before begin the page.
You need to tell Quartz 2D that you're starting your page.
And then you do your drawing the regular way.
You don't do anything special about that.
That's just the same type of content
drawing that I showed you before.
All of that's, pretty much goes through unchanged.
So that you get the output into the PDF file.
And then as usual or rather in this case, you
need to tell us you're done with the content.
So that the page can be ended, so that we can end the page.
And maybe you're going to do another page, so
you can do the same thing again and so on.
So you draw pages one after another,
begin page, draw your content, end page.
And then as I mentioned in Leopard, make sure you
call CG PDF context close to tell us now I'm done,
write out everything that you need to write to the file,
flush all the data to the, to the output destination.
And then because we created the
content, context we have to release it.
So that's sort of how you might build up a flyer, you
know from start to PDF output just using Quartz 2D APIs.
Of course I've just barely touched on what's available.
There's a lot more that you can do in Quartz 2D.
Let me just give you a flavor of some of that.
There's what we call a CG pattern
which lets you do replicated drawing.
Patterns work like colors, so you
can both use, use them both as fill
and stroke colors as you, if you will to fill regions.
We can use them like a wallpaper where you
just replicate the pattern over, over an area.
Shadows, those of you who have used Cocoa
probably know about the NS shadow class
and of course that's just a straight
cover on top of the CG shadow itself.
A shadow could be as I show here, it
could be either soft edged, hard edged.
It can be different orientations, you have different
colored shadows for some reason, you might want that.
And you, any, anything that you could
can draw in Quartz 2D you can shadow.
So here I show some more complex
paths that have a nice shadow.
You can see the shadow is drawn
appropriately in the interior parts and so on.
So that, that shadows are very powerful
and gives you a lot of cool effects.
Shadings, I mentioned those earlier in
passing when I talked about gradients.
It's a more complex but also more
powerful way to do gradients.
Gives you a little bit more control
over the way the gradient appears.
So that's worth checking out if you need
more than what the gradient functions offer.
Transparency layers are a way to draw a group of content
and then have an effect applied to them all as a group.
Here you can see on the left we have, maybe
this is a logo we want to draw consisting
of two rectangles with a stroked rectangle.
And when we draw them with a shadow, if we draw them one
after another we get the shadow sort of falling on top
of the other objects, which is not what we want.
On the right, what we've done is used a transparency
layer where we draw the content and its treated all
as a single set of drawing operations
so that then when the shadow is applied,
its applied as though that were
all just one block of objects.
You can see the shadow shows up
correctly on the right hand side.
There's an idea of CG layer which lets you
do high RSV rendering of drawn content.
In this case we imagine we have a layer
that we've drawn on little object into.
And we can reuse that layer to get the,
the same object drawn in multiple times.
And that's also part of Quartz 2D.
-
So that's, that's just sort of a flavor of where you can go.
Of course there's even more beyond this.
The thing that you might want to
know is like well what do I do now?
How do I actually get started?
Because this is, you know this talk is all
good, but really you have to write code.
How do you do that?
The thing I would recommend is get this book.
This is an excellent, fantastic book.
Talks about everything I've talked about plus a lot more.
It's really a valuable reference for
anyone who wants to use Quartz 2D.
And pretty much the reference.
It was written by two people at Apple.
They did a fantastic job.
I absolutely recommend it as a good way to learn more
about what I've been talking about and go even further.
And of course as a standard Apple developer
resources as you know about, those are also very,
very good and providing lots and lots of information.
And of course we have our, we have Allan you can
talk to who, who can get you to the right people
when you need to have specific questions answered.